Property Tax Analytics Dashboard — UPYOG Multi-Tenant Platform
Overview
You are required to build a Property Tax Analytics Dashboard for the UPYOG multi-tenant
platform. The platform serves 10 Indian cities, each acting as an independent tenant. A dataset
of 1,000 property records is provided as a JSON file. Your task is to load this data in React,
display meaningful KPIs, and integrate an AI chat assistant that can answer questions about the
data.
Duration 48 Hours
Frontend
Backend Not required — load JSON directly in React
AI Layer Any free API: Gemini, Claude, or OpenAI
Submission GitHub repository link sent to HR
The Data File (properties.json)
A file named properties.json is provided alongside this document. It contains exactly 1,000
property records spread across 10 Indian cities. You do not need any database or server —
place the file inside your React project and import it directly.
Loading the file in React:
Place properties.json in your src/ folder and import it:
import data from './properties.json';
Or fetch it from the public/ folder:
const res = await fetch('/properties.json'); const data = await res.json();
Each record in the file contains the following fields:
Field Type Example Description
property_id string UPYOG-DEL-0001 Unique identifier for the property
tenant string Delhi City name — 10 possible values
owner_name string Ramesh Kumar Name of the property owner
property_type string Residential
ward string Ward A Administrative ward within the city
Residential / Commercial / Industrial
React (mandatory)
NUDM Intern Assessment 2026
Page 1 | NUDM — UPYOG Platform | Intern Assessment 2026
area_sqft number 2400 Built-up area in square feet
status string Approved Approved / Rejected / Pending
annual_tax_inr number 18450.50 Annual property tax in Indian Rupees
collection_inr number 18450.50 Amount collected (0 if status is not Approved)
registration_date string 2022-03-15 Date of registration (YYYY-MM-DD)
floor_count number 2 Number of floors in the building
address string 42, Sector 12, Delhi Street address of the property
The 10 cities (tenants) in the dataset are:
Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Jaipur,
Lucknow
Tasks
Task 1 — KPI Dashboard (30 points)
Display the following four KPI cards on the dashboard. All values must update live when the
user selects a different city from the tenant filter dropdown.
KPI How to calculate Points
Total Properties Registered Count all records for the selected tenant 7
Total Properties Approved Count records where status is Approved 7
Total Properties Rejected Count records where status is Rejected 7
Total Collection (Rs.) Sum of collection_inr for the selected tenant 9
Tenant filter: A dropdown listing all 10 cities plus an All Cities option. Selecting a city must
filter the entire dashboard. This filter is worth 15 additional points.
Task 2 — Comparison Chart (10 points)
Include at least one chart that shows all 10 cities side by side. Recommended libraries: Recharts
or Chart.js. Suggested chart types:
- Bar chart showing total collection per city (recommended)
- Pie or donut chart showing share of properties per city
- Grouped bar chart showing Approved vs Rejected vs Pending per city (bonus)
Task 3 — AI Chat Assistant (25 points)
Add a chat box to your dashboard. The user types a question in plain English and receives an
answer about the property data. You do not need to train any model — use a free API.
Page 2 | NUDM — UPYOG Platform | Intern Assessment 2026
Approach:
1. Compute a summary of the data (totals per city, top collector, etc.).
2. When the user asks a question, send it to the AI API along with the summary as context.
3. Display the AI response in a chat-style UI.
API Free tier URL
Google Gemini Generous free quota (gemini-1.5-flash) aistudio.google.com
Anthropic Claude Free trial credits console.anthropic.com
OpenAI Free trial credits on new accounts platform.openai.com
Sample questions the AI should answer correctly:
- Which city has the highest total collection?
- How many properties are rejected in Mumbai?
- What percentage of Delhi properties are approved?
- Which city has the most pending properties?
- Compare total registrations between Pune and Jaipur.
Scoring
Component Max Points
KPI dashboard (4 cards, correct values) 30
Tenant filter (dropdown updates all KPIs) 15
Comparison chart 10
AI chat assistant 25
Code quality and structure 10
README and setup instructions 10
Bonus — PostgreSQL or ElasticSearch backend +10
Total 100 (+10)
Shortlisting cutoff:
70 and above Shortlisted for interview
55 to 69 Manual review by hiring team
Below 55 Not shortlisted
No submission or project does not run Automatically rejected
Page 3 | NUDM — UPYOG Platform | Intern Assessment 2026
Page 4 | NUDM — UPYOG Platform | Intern Assessment 2025
Submission Instructions
1. Push your completed project to a public GitHub repository.
2. Make sure properties.json is committed and your README.md includes setup steps.
NUDM Intern Assessment 2025 — [Your Full Name]
4. Deadline: [insert deadline]. Late submissions will not be reviewed.
Important: Store your AI API key in a .env file and add .env to .gitignore. Never commit API keys to GitHub.
Questions? Email [insert contact email]. We will respond within 24 hours.
Good luck. We look forward to seeing what you build.
— NUDM, UPYOG Platform
3. Send your GitHub link and Screenshots to [insert HR email] with subject line: